# TestGenGPT4j

This is a tool written for a research about OpenAI ChatGPT's unit test generation capabilities.
You can use the tool with a OpenAI API key to generate JUnit 5 test codes for your Java classes. In our research we
generated unit tests with different models (text-davinci-002, text-davinci-003, and gpt-3.5-turbo) and measured 
line coverage and method coverage of the generated tests with JaCoCo. In our results we saw that text-davinci-002 takes
less time to generate tests however in comparison with others test coverage is lower. gpt-3.5-turbo achieves a nice
balance between speed and coverage as it ranks second in speed and share the first place in coverage with text-davinci-003
model. This research employed a very small dataset due to time limitations, so it may not reflect a general truth. You are welcome
to try and get your results as well.

# Usage
First you need few libraries: `streamlit`, `opeanai`, `langchain`.
You can install them using `pip` like below:

`pip install streamlit langchain openai`

After installing the dependencies, open a terminal at the root of the project (where `app.py` resides), and run:

`streamlit run app.py` command. A new local server will start and your default browser will open the page for you.
Enter your OpenAI API key and select a model. We have 5 examples you can try out with or you can enter your own code.

## One thing to consider
Due to max token limitation of the models, you cannot enter very long Java code or you will get an error that says
max token limit exceeded.

# Example code and generated test
You can find example codes and generated tests based on the example codes under `exampleCodes` and `exampleGeneratedTests`
directories respectively. There will be 5 generated codes for each model as we generated 5 tests for each example with each model.
Remember these are generated by the models and may not be correct. We copy them as they the model wrote it. Some small modifications
can be required in order for tests to work.
